So, the obvious first question that
a lot of people have is, what is Svelte?
And there's actually a lot of different
ways to answer that question.
It's a lot of different things.
But it's probably easiest to
understand it as an alternative to
other existing projects
that you're familiar with.
React and Vue are the two most
popular component frameworks and
Svelte essentially solves
a similar problem that they do.
So what is a component framework?
Component frameworks exist to help you
write applications more declaratively.
We use that word declaratively
a lot in programming.
So it's helpful to understand
exactly what we mean by that.
This declarative code that I'm looking
at here, this is some Svelte code,
is roughly equivalent to
the vanilla JavaScript beneath it.
You can see what's happening.
We're creating a button using
document.createElement,
and then we're putting some text inside
it, then adding an event listener.
When you click the button,
it increments the value of count,
and then it updates the text
content inside the button.
Then we return that and
that's our component.
So the difference is in
the imperative version,
we're telling the browser
exactly what to do.
In the declarative version,
we're just saying what outcome we want.
And that's obviously a lot simpler for
the developer because we're not
having to work through the process of
explaining to the browser exactly what
it needs to do at each given moment.
And most of the point,
there's no duplication.
Here, we've got this initial
button.textContent = blah.
And then inside the update handler,
we've got the same thing.
And you tend to find that when
you're building web applications,
you have a lot of that
kind of duplication.
You have the initial render and
then you have the update.
But if you're doing things declaratively,
that's no longer the case.
But it gets worse for
the imperative story.
If you wanna make a very small change
to your component, for example,
you wanna wrap that count
variable in a strong element.
Then if you're doing it imperatively,
you need to almost rewrite
the entire component.
And that's for a very small change.
So you can imagine if you're building a
large application, the amount of work that
you would have to do as you're
iterating on your design is much,
much greater with imperative code.
So that's the value that
component frameworks provide.
They make it a lot easier for
us as developers to build applications.
Historically though, there has been
a little bit of an implicit trade off.
Because the framework acts as
a middleman between you and the browser,
and the middleman introduces inefficiency.
So Svelte began back in 2016 as
an experiment to prove that,
that is in fact a false dichotomy.
There is no tension between developer
experience and user experience.
Svelte is a compiler,
it takes your declarative code and
it turns it into the equivalent
imperative JavaScript.
And this has a number of
really useful advantages.
Number one, your apps will generally
be quite a lot smaller because
we don't need to have the actual
framework runtime in the browser.
Normally the framework has to
anticipate every possible use case.
But because Svelte understands
exactly what is going into your app,
it can discard most of it and
just ship the code that is actually
needed for your specific use case.
JavaScript is the most expensive thing on
the web byte for byte because you don't
just have to download it,
you also have to parse and evaluate it.
And so if you can use less of it, then
your apps are gonna launch quicker and
your users will be happier.
Once your applications have already
launched, your apps are gonna
be faster because we don't need to use
costly techniques like re-rendering
the virtual DOM and then diffing it to
find out what needs to change on the page.
Instead, we can make surgical,
granular updates.
The compiler knows which bits of
the application could change for
a given state change.
And it can just change
the DOM directly the same way
that you would do if you're
using the DOM API manually.
And finally, your apps will be easier to
write using Svelte because we have a lot
more control over
the authoring experience.
We don't have the same
constraints that other people do.
What this means in particular
is that if you're using Svelte,
you will be able to write less code.
There's a blog post linked there
that I invite you to check out,
which explains why writing less code is so
important.
Writing less code means that
you'll have fewer bugs and
you'll be able to spend
more time outdoors.
Beyond that,
Svelte aims to make your life easier by
shipping a lot of the things that normally
you would have to do as third party
libraries that you would install from NPM.
So things like state management,
element transitions,
handling input via form elements,
scope, CSS, all of those things.
Normally with a framework, those
are things that you have to figure out
a solution to yourself, but
with Svelte it's already built in.
And we can do that because again,
we're a compiler,
we can discard the bits
that we're not using.
So who makes Svelte?
Well, it is very much a community project.
It's not a project with full time
engineers and corporate funding.
It's a project that is developed in
the open by a group of volunteers who
work on it in their free time
because we believe in the project.
There is a core team of developers
who do the day-to-day stuff,
but the broader contributor
community is large.
And every decision that we make
about the future of the framework
is done to the greatest extent
possible out in the open.
It's an egalitarian,
communitarian project.
We welcome developers of all backgrounds
and with all skill levels, and
we would love for
you to be involved as well.
So, with that, we'll move on to the next
part of the workshop where we're gonna
run through the entire Svelte tutorial
to learn how to build Svelte components.